okay so the final segment on information
retrieval is going to be a quick summary
of existing information retrieval
Puckett's and datasets so there's a
number of open source I took it some of
them are here just for historical
reasons for example the smart system
which has been around for 30 plus years
there's mg from Australia New Zealand
there's lemur from Carnegie Mellon
University the University of
Massachusetts this Terrier from the
University of Glasgow and clearly from
the University of Michigan and also a
very large open source project called
Luce seen from the Apache foundation so
let's look at some of those so smart is
the most influential information
retrieval system that was developed by
our Sultan many years ago since the 60s
it's based on a vector space model and
it has a lot of different weighting
options it's within the C language and
it has been improved over the years to
the point where in some of the tech
evaluations is actually it actually won
the first place it's still available for
download and it is used in a lot of
information with people classes as a
teaching tool mg is a highly efficient
toolkit formative of both text and
images was developed in the 90s by
people in the universities of Waikato
and now born and RMIT in Australia it's
also written in C and is based on the
vector space model but it uses a lot of
tricks for efficient compression and
data representation so it also has
achieved good tag performance more
recently our systems called Lima and
India based on language model based
information retrieval have been
developed they're written in C pass pass
helix highly extensible they based on
both vector space and probabilistic
models and they have also achieved very
good performance and finally leucine is
an open source information table to
toolkit that is written in Java it's
distributed by the Apache foundation and
has been ported to multiple languages
it's very good for building practical IR
and web applications from scratch and
there are many applications out there
that have been built on top of lucid for
example nut and solar so this concludes
the section on information retrieval